# USA - New York

New York recognizes the gender of trans people. I.E. trans women are
considered women, trans men are men, and non-binary people, at least in
some instances are recognized as non-binary.  Some recognition may
require identification documentation changes, and some organizations or
agencies may not fully recognize these changes.

New York is not a "sanctuary state" for trans medical care. However,
trans medical care is not considered abuse and is not banned. In
addition, New York City has issued a limited-scope sanctuary executive
order.

## Non-discrimination Law

 * Trans people are specifically named in New York non-discrimination laws.

## Public Accommodations

 * Trans people are allowed to use the facilities they are comfortable
   in, including bathrooms, showers, locker rooms, etc.  Legal
   documentation of your gender is not required for this protection.
 * Public accommodations/businesses with single-occupancy bathrooms are
   required to sign these for all gender and allow access to all
   genders.

## Drag / Performance / Cross-dressing Laws

 * Drag performance and cross-dressing is legal in New York.

## Air Travel

See the [USA TSA](../notes/tsa.md) document.

## Jails / Prisons

 * While most jails/prisons have regulations that, in theory, would
   consider gender identity in housing decisions, these regulations are
   often ignored and trans people are often housed according to sex
   assigned at birth.
 * NYC jails, like jails in many places, are cruel and particularly
   dangerous for trans people. In 2019, a trans woman, Layleen Polanco
   Xtravaganza, was killed through indifference, willful neglect, and solitary
   confinement by the NYC jail system. This resulted in a $5.9
   million payout by the city. She was in jail for inability to pay
   bail.

## Legal Definition of Sex

 * There is no legal definition of male/female in New York.

Non-binary people are recognized, at least by some aspects of
government, such as in the ability to change birth certificates,
driver licenses, and data gathering. However, non-binary recognition is
still incomplete in New York.

Intersex people are recognized in some laws, such as a law requiring
some education for medical providers on intersex issues.

## Medical Care

 * Trans medical care is legal for all ages
 * New York City has issued an executive order prohibiting cooperation
   with prosecution of a person for receiving or providing transgender
   care.

## Child Custody / Abuse

 * Transition care is not defined as child abuse
 
## Relationship Recognition

 * Same-sex marriage (and thus all trans marriage) is recognized

## Relevant Laws

 * [New York City EO 32 - Sanctuary City Order](https://www.nyc.gov/office-of-the-mayor/news/32-002/executive-order-32)

## General Safety

While there are many visibly trans people in NYC, and NYC is home to
some leading LGBT medical centers, hate crimes against LGBT people also
occur in NYC, including stabbings of trans women and trans women (and
cis women who appear trans) being denied access to appropriate bathrooms
even in some gay establishments.  While these acts are the exception, it
is important to be aware of surroundings even while in apparently
queer-friendly locations.

Because of the rhetoric around trans people in the political and media
space, trans people should use caution, particularly in bathrooms,
locker rooms, showers, etc.  Random and targeted attacks may occur, and
trans people who report these attacks can expect to sometimes be misgendered
by officials and public institutions.

## Resources

