# DISCLAIMER

This is not legal advice, and is not put together by a lawyer.  This
information is not guaranteed to be up-to-date or accurate.  You
should consult with an attorney with any questions.

# Introduction

This project seeks to provide "travel advice" based on laws and practical
safety within various jurisdictions.  It is not geared towards people
living in a state (laws, for instance, about medical insurance won't
generally be mentioned, as most people traveling will have
out-of-jurisdiction medical insurance. Likewise, laws about school
athletics will not be mentioned as these generally don't impact
travelers.  However, information that might impact travelers in
different situation will be mentioned. For instance, someone assigned to
a business project for several months in a state may need to utilize
medical care. Others may travel with children and be concerned about how
this could be seen as child abuse or cause child custody issues.

# Directory of Jurisdictions

 * [USA](us)

# A Note on Intersectional Oppression

This directory is focused on laws and safety concerns that generally
impact trans people. However, not all trans people have the same safety
concerns, which is why I've refrained from saying a state might be
"safe" or "dangerous" directly, or giving scores/grades/etc.  For
instance, a wealthy trans person may be able to more safely visit a
specific jurisdiction than someone without class privilege. Likewise, a
person with white privilege might be safe in a place where a person who
does not have that privilege might not.  The intent is to not erase
these legitimate intersectional concerns, but to be a starting point for
your research.

# About "Bad Countries" and "Bad States"

Trans people have always existed, and still do exist across all
cultures. A jurisdiction may be unsafe or have bad laws, but there will
still be trans people within that jurisdiction, and it's important to
consider them before fully writing off a state or country as not worth a
fight. In addition, there are accepting, open-minded allies in every
jurisdiction as well.

In addition, in both good and bad jurisdictions, there will be good and
bad treatment of trans people. The summaries in this project attempt to
summarize the situation for people, but they are just summaries. Any one
individual's situation may be different than what others face, both good
and bad.

# Errors / Omissions

This project welcomes contributions via pull requests or email to
jmaslak@antelope.net.

To add a new jurisdiction, please utilize the template in template.md if
you can.

# License

This is licensed Creative Commons Zero (CC0) 1.0.
